[doc] Debugging page (#28215)
dagster-io/dagster: docs/docs/guides/monitor/debugging/debugging-pdb.md

2025-03-03 15:24:55 -0600 - dagster - DEBUG - __ASSET_JOB - 202cd42f-ecf3-4504-838c-e41f58dbdf78 - 52536 - pdb_asset - STEP_WORKER_STARTING - Launching subprocess for "pdb_asset".
2025-03-03 15:24:55 -0600 - dagster - DEBUG - __ASSET_JOB - 202cd42f-ecf3-4504-838c-e41f58dbdf78 - 52540 - pdb_asset - STEP_WORKER_STARTED - Executing step "pdb_asset" in subprocess.
2025-03-03 15:24:55 -0600 - dagster - DEBUG - __ASSET_JOB - 202cd42f-ecf3-4504-838c-e41f58dbdf78 - 52540 - pdb_asset - RESOURCE_INIT_STARTED - Starting initialization of resources [io_manager].
2025-03-03 15:24:55 -0600 - dagster - DEBUG - __ASSET_JOB - 202cd42f-ecf3-4504-838c-e41f58dbdf78 - 52540 - pdb_asset - RESOURCE_INIT_SUCCESS - Finished initialization of resources [io_manager].
2025-03-03 15:24:55 -0600 - dagster - DEBUG - __ASSET_JOB - 202cd42f-ecf3-4504-838c-e41f58dbdf78 - 52540 - LOGS_CAPTURED - Started capturing logs in process (pid: 52540).
2025-03-03 15:24:55 -0600 - dagster - DEBUG - __ASSET_JOB - 202cd42f-ecf3-4504-838c-e41f58dbdf78 - 52540 - pdb_asset - STEP_START - Started execution of step "pdb_asset".
--Return--
> /Users/dennis/code/dagster-quickstart/debugging.py(11)pdb_asset()
-> x += 5
(Pdb)
```

> ## Accessing variables

Reviewer: I think you can delete this heading if you add the step 3 heading above

The pdb debugger will be at the point in the asset where `context.pdb.set_trace()` was set and give you access to any of the variables within the asset at that point in the asset code.

```bash
(Pdb) x
10
```

> You can keep navigate through the asset code using any [pdb commands](https://realpython.com/python-debugging-pdb/#essential-pdb-commands) and access variables at different points to see how values change over time. 

Author: That makes sense. I realized after I took the screenshot the difference between `n` and `next`

```bash
> /Users/dennis/code/dagster-quickstart/debugging.py(11)pdb_asset()
-> x += 5
(Pdb) x
10
(Pdb) next
> /Users/dennis/code/dagster-quickstart/debugging.py(12)pdb_asset()
-> x += 20
(Pdb) x
15
(Pdb) next
> /Users/dennis/code/dagster-quickstart/debugging.py(13)pdb_asset()
-> return x
(Pdb) x
35
(Pdb)
```

> While these pdb commands occur in the terminal, they will also be recorded in `stdout` of the Dagster asset execution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While these `pdb` commands occur in the terminal, they will also be recorded in `stdout` of the Dagster asset execution:
```

![pdb stdout](/images/guides/monitor/debugging/stdout.png)

> ## Continuing execution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 4. End debugging and finish materializing your asset
```

> The asset will remain in the "materializing" state until all the statements of the asset have been navigated through using `next` or `continue` is executed within pdb. The asset will then finish materializing and close pdb in the terminal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The asset will remain in the "materializing" state until you have navigated through all the statements of the asset with `next` or until you execute `continue` within `pdb`. The asset will then finish materializing and close `pdb` in the terminal:
```

---
title: "Debugging assets during execution"
description: 'Debugging assets during execution'
sidebar_position: 10
---

Sometimes you may want to debug an asset while it is executing. To simplify this process, Dagster supports interactive debugging with [`pdb`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/pdb.html) through the <PyObject section="execution" module="dagster" object="AssetExecutionContext" /> of an asset. `pdb` helps you identify and fix bugs by enabling you to inspect variables and program flow in an interactive debugging console starting from a breakpoint you set in your code.

This can be useful when debugging assets with complex transformations or assets that retrieve data from external systems where you want to work directly with the data inside of the asset.

> ## 1. Set a pdb breakpoint in your asset

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 1. Set a `pdb` breakpoint in your asset
```
